Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about nested loops in C.
So the C programming language
allows us to create nested loops.
Or we can say a loop inside another loop like
this
Now this is the syntax for nested while loop.
And this is the syntax for nested do while loop
And this is this the syntax for nested for loop
Now let us see an example
We have a pattern here with five stars in
five rows and five columns
Now the task for us is to print this pattern
on the screen
So what we can do is we can use nested
loop. so we can use 2 for loops. the inner
loop will print Five stars like this and the outer loop will
execute the  inner loop 5 times
So let's see how to write this in C
So we have the main function and two integer variables
i and j
are
Declared. And we have the outer for loop
for(i=1;iless than =5;i++)
so it will be executing for five
times
And then we have the inner loop
for(j=1;jless than =5;j++)
which will also execute five times and
each times it will print a star
So first i=1 and iless than 5
So we go inside and we have j=1
And j is also less than 5  so it will
go inside and print a star
And then j will be incremented and it will
become 2
Now we have j=2 and jless than 5
So it will go inside again and print another
star and j will be incremented and it will
become 3
So now j=3 and jless than 5
So again the condition is true
So it will print a star and then j will
be incremented and it will become 4 now
Now we have j=4 and jless than 5
So the condition is true
So it will go inside and print a star
And then j will get incremented and it will become
Now we go for the next iteration and we have
j=5 and j=5
So condition is still true
So it prints a star and then j will be incremented
and it becomes 6
Now when it checks the condition whether jless than =5
it is not satisfied
So the control comes out of the for loop and prints
a new line character
And now it will increment i
and i will become 2 now
So the first iteration of the outer loop is completed
and what we got is a row of five stars
Now i=2 and iless than 5
So the condition is true
So it goes for the second iteration and in a
similar way it prints another row of 5 stars
And it will print a new line character and it
will increment i now
i=3 and again condition holds so inner
loop will work and print a row of stars and go to
next line and increment i
So now i=4  and condition is still true
So the inner loop will work and print forth row
of stars and go to next line and it will
increment i Now i has become five and again condition
holds since i=5
So inner loop will work and it will print the
next row of stars and go to next line and
increment i
And now i becomes six
Now the condition fails and comes out of the loop
and return zero
So the inner loop will print a row five
stars in each iteration of outer loop and it will
have five iterations so five rows of five stars will
be printed as the output
So that's all and thank you for watching this video